the White House has condemned the loss
of life of dozens of civilians as a
result of an Israeli air strike in Rafa
at the weekend but Washington says it
doesn't believe Israel's offensive in
Gaza has violated President Joe Biden's
declared red line for withholding future
transfers of weapons to Israel now
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin says
that Israel must outline in any case its
strategy for bringing the war to an end
in the absence of a plan for the day
after there won't be a day after a plan
the day after that does not leave Israel
responsible for Gaza which it says it
does not want to be but if it is it will
simply have an enduring Insurgency on
its hands for as far as one can see into
the future or not if not Hamas will be
left in charge which is
unacceptable or if not we'll have chaos
lawlessness and a vacuum that eventually
will be filled Again by Hamas or maybe
something if it's possible to imagine
even worse and we can now speak to Laura
Blumenfeld she's a Middle East analyst
in New York Times bestselling author who
joins us from Washington DC welcome
Laura Joe Biden has said in the past
that the fullscale Israeli military
operation in Gaza would cross a red line
is there any clear evidence though that
such a red line really
exists well you saw what happened today
I mean the White House described the
latest um unfortunate loss of Civilian
lives as heartbreaking but not red line
breaking and I think if anybody smudged
that let Red Line This week it would be
the icj by allowing a little bit of
ambiguity in their language they talked
about an incursion into Rafa might they
use the word might endanger the
Palestinians there and Israel with its
talmudic interpretation their lawyers
quickly got busy saying that you know we
won't cause a great loss of life or in
this case they were talking about
genocide and that left just enough
ambiguity um we heard you know John
Kirby from the White House say Do not
smash into the the the major population
centers with the major ground offensive
um and so the Israelis were saying we
proceed you know with a scalpel not a
bone saw Jake Sullivan the National
Security Council adviser argued last
week that there was no mathematical
formula to assessing how big an IDF
operation is so the scale will always be
subjective where do you see the
administration actually drawing its
lines well I think there are two
important things for the administration
not only in terms of their relationship
with Israel and Gaza the Palestinians
but their their position in the world
and the first thing is leadership I mean
we are not a go at alone Nation uh
Netanyahu said if we have to fight alone
we will with our fingernails um Biden
represents alliances you know decency
versus Revenge so I think the most
important thing is where we can maintain
our leadership and our alliances with
the west and with other you know
friendly Nations um you know the second
most important thing is that we maintain
our moral moral High Ground that's very
important to us how do you fight bad and
stay good and I think if we see that
kind of erosion of the morality um in
the battlefield in Gaza that's where we
will draw the line that's where we
always have and that's in a way also
some of the lessons that we're trying to
learn and and mistakes we're trying to
make up for in terms of our behavior in
Iraq and
Afghanistan but you know saying that
that there's no real way to to assess
how big this is using words like
smashing into rafo which is Israel is
probably not going to do because they
know that the world is watching is that
not a get out of your obligations free
card in a
way not at all I actually think that
although we're not watching I think the
United States actually has Israel by the
Scruff of the neck right now I mean as I
heard from your previous report about
Ukraine in some sense guns are the love
language of America to other nations and
Israel is heavily dependent on guns and
weapons you saw again after this tragic
fire in the tent um encampment um with
Palestinians on Sunday night uh the
Israelis were quick to point out that
they Ed the smallest Munitions available
a 37 pound bomb I'm sure that was
because the United States was saying you
know it's our guns it's our ground rules
and so I think that even diplomatically
at the UN I mean now there's going to be
a un uh Security Council resolution to
condemn and and to Halt the incursion
into Rafa I'm sure the United States is
going to exact a price from Israel if
they are going to abstain or veto
actually I think more likely is what
Israel is going to be looking for and
they're going to say to Israel okay you
know maybe we'll give you that veto at
the UN but let's see some flexibility on
the hostage deal which the United States
really does see as unlocking the whole
mass and and the key to to moving
forward um or perhaps you know with Aid
we'd like to see those 350 trucks which
you promised us at least a 100 trucks
coming in from the north so I think
there are ways that they're using their
leverages just behind the scenes because
Israel is absolutely depend of the
United States at this point yeah this is
an election year and there are many
people in the US that would like to see
the Biden Administration take a more
robust stance towards Israel there's
also people who are saying that you know
the administration is not doing enough
to support Israel in this so I want to
know from you to what extent is Joe
Biden's policy determined by those
domestic political pressures and is he
always going to lose support whatever he
does I I great point the domestic
pressure on him Cuts both ways in fact
one of the most interesting
demonstrations I saw on a college campus
was where you had the prop Palestinian
uh protesters chanting and the counter
protesters chanting the same thing which
was F Biden I think for the president
the most important thing is not to look
weak weak is kind of code for old right
because that's one of the biggest
problems for him um he's got to show
that he's sticking with his ally um we
saw Nikki Haley who was potentially
going to go into a trump Administration
um over there in Israel um you know
riding on a shell uh an artillery shell
that Israel is planning to use um you
know finish them so the good news for
Biden however is finish them is what
Nikki Haley is saying now but if you
recall Donald Trump said finish it he
doesn't want this war to go on either I
mean as of now it's kind of been a
sloppy slow and lowly kind of lonely
kind of fight and Trump does not want to
see that on his watch either that Middle
East analyst Laura Blumenfeld thank you
so much for sharing your insights it was
great talking to you thank you great to
be here